14 Top Paying Computer Jobs for Non-Managers
Software-architect: 124000 Coming up with the framework of a software project and ensuring that it meets business goals can be lucrative work. Software architects analyze user and business requirements, consider the constraints, and define a plan for structuring the software. They take a high-level view of the design; for instance, they specify coding standards, but they may not write much actual code. Many software architects start out as developers and work their way up.
Data-scientist: 123000 With the massive amounts of data that are generated every day, skilled professionals who can derive useful insights from that data can make a pretty penny. Data scientists use their advanced quantitative skills to devise and apply new algorithms that mine complex sets of data. They aim to discover patterns and trends that can help solve business problems.
Hardware-engineer: 117000 Designing and developing computerized devices is one of the highest-paying jobs in technology. Hardware engineers create everything from circuit boards and servers to keyboards and routers. They design blueprints, make prototypes, and test their models to determine what improvements or adjustments need to be made. A degree in computer engineering, electrical engineering, or computer science is usually required.
Network-architect: 113000 Determining the best way to get computers to communicate with each other is the primary task of a network architect. These highly paid IT professionals develop the framework for a variety of data communication systems, such as Intranets, local area networks (LANs), and wide area networks (WANs). They ensure that their plans align with business objectives and support the long-term goals of an organization.
Systems-architect: 110000 Systems architects take a big-picture view of a computer system and define the structure and interactions of that system so that it meets business requirements. They are responsible for designing the overall technical infrastructure of a system, incorporating hardware, software, networks, firewalls, and security. It's important to be comfortable with a wide range of technologies, including cloud computing.
Applications-or-systems-software-developer: 108000 Any device with a computer chip in it requires software to make it work properly. Systems software developers create the operating systems that power our computers, tablets, and phones. They also design and develop the embedded software that controls the functioning of electronics systems in things like cars, appliances, and televisions. Applications software developers build the software that consumers use, including mobile apps. That involves identifying required functionality and creating flowcharts as well as writing, testing, and debugging code.
Information-security-analyst: 100000 Companies need to know where their security vulnerabilities lie, and they frequently offer large salaries to people who can find those weaknesses and recommend ways to fix or improve them. Information security analysts simulate cyberattacks and conduct security audits in order to ferret out flaws that could lead to breaches. They also develop and test disaster recovery plans. Many computer security certifications are available.
Database-administrator: 94000 Storing and safeguarding data is essential to the operation of most businesses. That's why skilled database administrators can command such high salaries. They install and configure database servers, manage access permissions, and make adjustments as necessary to optimize performance. They also back up data to ensure that it can be restored in the event of a security breach or other disaster.
Big-data-engineer: 92000 Without big-data engineers, data scientists would have nothing to analyze. These engineers use their programming expertise to design and build data pipelines and processing systems. While data scientists concentrate on mining the generated data, engineers focus on building and maintaining the actual data infrastructure and architecture.
Systems-analyst: 91000 Systems analysts evaluate an organization's computer systems with the aim of figuring out ways to increase performance and efficiency. They identify areas that could be changed or improved and prepare reports detailing the costs and benefits of technological upgrades. Many of them work as contractors or consultants.
Senior-IT-auditor: 87000 The job of an IT auditor is to analyze a company's information systems in order to make sure those systems comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Auditors evaluate business operations and assess risk. They also check to see if effective controls are in place to safeguard the integrity and confidentiality of company data. Many employers look for professional certification.
Network-administrator: 84000 Keeping data communication systems functioning efficiently and effectively is well-paying work. Network administrators install and maintain equipment such as servers, routers, switches, and firewalls. They monitor network performance and make upgrades and repairs as needed to keep things running smoothly. They also connect new computers to a network and configure user access settings.
Software-quality-assurance-engineer: 76000 Many companies depend on software quality assurance engineers to monitor the development process and ensure that a final product works properly and meets established standards. This role involves reviewing technical specifications, developing and running tests, documenting bugs, and making sure that critical issues are addressed. It helps to be proficient in different programming languages and operating systems.
Web-developer:   74000 
          There's great demand for people who can bring websites and web applications to life, which is why these developers can earn handsome salaries. They are responsible for all the technical aspects of getting a site up and running. That means determining the features and functionality, designing the framework, and writing code. You'll need a strong portfolio to show potential employers.

